All right.
Let's talk about how you would do an in-game tutorial in something.
First of all, why is having an in-game tutorial useful to the end user experience and why is it challenging
for developers?
Well, often when we play video games, there's enough rules about the game world, about how to interact,
doing the input that you have to tell the user about that explicitly.
A tutorial is a device that in the first one minute, ten minute, one hour of gameplay, you give the
user additional information.
So as they walk up to a character, you explain how to hit a button to start the conversation.
Whereas after five hours of that game you wouldn't need to show them every time.
So this is something that is temporary, often done at the beginning or the first time the user encounters
something.
So that's why we want to have it right now.
Why is it challenging?
Well, because it doesn't always happen.
Like typically when we create game features, they're always available here.
We want this only to happen in the first minute or 10 minutes or 1 hour, as I mentioned.
So you could either go through all of your game systems and have them each say, Hey, if we're in the
first ten minutes, do this extra thing, but otherwise don't do the extra thing.
But that becomes a bit of code that you have to put in a lot of different systems.
So what we're going to see here is how to do in-game tutorials in a different way.
We're going to have the core game logic know nothing about the tutorials and then we'll have a tutorial
entity sit off to the side and listen to what the core game is doing and it is only going to be active
for the first ten minutes and then if it goes away, the core game never knew about it and doesn't know
about it anymore.
So let's take a look at how that would work.
Now, this talk and this demo scene is part of a larger course, which is the mini architecture for
unity course that you can get linked below.
Now, that's a paid course where you get to see samples on how this feature works.
About the theory of software design.
Here's an in-depth look.
Looking at design patterns, looking at design principles, learning UML, diagramming, covering different
types of unity architectures and why you might need them.
The spoiler alert here is that you want them because they help you scale projects, create more maintainable
code and have more error free workflows as you're building a project that scales.
It includes lots of different stuff.
One thing we've added here is a ten or more additional demos since the course was first created, and
one of them is how to do a tutorial, and that's the one we're going to look at now.
So let's jump into unity here.
So if you get the mini MVCs package free from Git or as part of the course, you'll download and install
that with the git instructions.
And then here in the samples tab, you'll import the examples.
And that's what we're going to be taking a look at here on the side.
I've already done that.
So when I go more and then I open up the tutorial mini, we can see we've got some prefabs, we've got
the scene, we've got a bit of code here that has the tutorial view and the tutorial controller.
Let's go ahead and run this.
Yeah, I'm actually going to show something before we step into this, because notice the tutorial.
Well, I'll just make a nice big.
So the tutorial that is in this scene is in the box in the upper corner there it says tutorial enter
username and password.
So here for simplicity I'm mimicking how a web experience would work.
Often we're logging in to web experiences.
You have a username and a password that is the core real estate of the screen is the login mini example.
Now that example sits in a different scene to just illustrate how separate this tutorial and the core
game logic can be.
I have the login mini as a separate scene, so that's a scene you can go and look at in depth and you
can see how many can be used to put a username, password, login button, log out button in there.
So it's telling me here that the password is one, two, three, four.
So if I go ahead here and I type in the name, I'm going to type in my name.
Like that.
Then I'll start typing in the password if I type in pass.
Notice as I start typing the tutorial knows so at first tells you, hey, go put in the username and
the password.
But the moment you've done the username and you start typing the password, it's like, Oh, you might
be ready to click log in.
So this is an arbitrary example about how the tutorial is looking into your progress through the core
user experience and giving you some helpful hints.
It could say, Hey, here's a character you can interact with in the game.
Click A to start dialogue and after the user is familiar with that, you never want to show them the
click A to start dialogue again.
Right?
Same thing here.
This is sitting off to the side showing information.
This could be available perhaps only temporarily through the game.
But the core idea here is that the the game itself doesn't know about the tutorial.
Right?
Then I click log in.
I get failed.
It says you failed the tutorial, try again.
So I'll log out and then I'll use the pass.
One, two, three, four.
Which is the as the hint shows is the real answer.
I'll hit log in.
It says you completed the tutorial, so see how nice that is.
That tutorial sits off to the side and gives you helpful hints.
It could certainly give you much more hints than what's shown here.
Let's see how that structure works.
So here we have the tutorial view, which is the UI here with the.
There we go.
The title and the body.
So it's just sitting up there in the corner.
Simple Unity UI.
Then the Mini here is going to take in a reference of that view, which we got right here.
And let's take a look at how the Mini is structured.
So there's a comment here.
I'll just read it.
The example is the main entry point to the demo.
A tutorial does not need to load a separate scene.
That's done here only to demonstrate that this is a completely unrelated code that can properly decorate
a user experience on top of a system without knowing.
So we could have everything be in this scene.
But I'm showing like, hey, if we load that login example, this can be so separate that it can be
laid on top.
And just that illustration of separation is nice, right?
So here we'll take in The View.
Now, most of the demo scenes that come in fact, all of the demo scenes except this one that come with
the Mini are one scene demos.
But here again, after I load up the mini, I go ahead and I load in that log in with mini example,
which is just the log in portion.
And it was created long before this demo and it knows nothing about the tutorial operating on top of
it.
It didn't even need to be updated for this.
Then down here what I do is make a bridge to the Mini.
And then.
I do the wiring up here.
So what I do in the make a bridge is I go and get the model from the loaded scene so you can look at
the code above to see how that's done.
But now that I know, okay, here's the model from the loaded scene, we as the tutorial need to listen
in to that.
So I initialize the view using the context of the core logic, and then I create a tutorial controller
here.
And I pass in the login model and the view.
So here is the tutorial logic here.
Let's go ahead and take a look in the controller and see how it works.
So what I do is I update the tutorials, little window to say the word tutorial, just to kick off the
clarity there.
And then I start listening in to the login model.
So remember, I load that extra scene.
I grab the model from it because it was created using Mini, so I'm able to grab the login model from
it and then I listen to a value called Can I log in?
And then I listen to some different commands.
So any time the log in.
Login button becomes enabled can login is true.
So I'm able to listen for that so that I can step through the process.
Then any time the log out command happens, any time the log in, submitted happens and any time the
log in completed happens.
So there's four things that I've been able to listen to.
Now, in theory, if you're developing the tutorial and the core logic at the same time, the step would
be like this.
Once you get the basic structure we have here, let's say that you had introduced the idea of walking
up to and talking to characters in an RPG game.
You'd want your core login model here to expose an event like Started conversation with character equals
True.
Or here's a new command that says the start conversation command.
Either of those, you'd want to have them as part of the core game logic and be updated and dispatched.
Then the tutorial out here can hook into that as we see here, either through the model or through the
context command manager and be able to listen to those things.
So the usefulness here down here, we see that anytime the log out happens in the core logic, I will
update the tutorial text to be its first phrase of okay, it's time to enter login, enter username
and password.
Any time can log in is changed which because the core logic knows should we be able to log in at this
moment or not?
The tutorial updates itself again and says a little bit more information.
Any time the user has submitted to log in the tutorial will say waiting for the result and any time
the log in is finished it listens in and says, Well, if you were successful then you're successful
in the tutorial or if you were not successful then you failed the tutorial.
So it's an arbitrary demo here.
This is kind of a silly example.
To give help for a form like this.
But you can imagine in a game there might be many different parts of the core logic that you would want
to expose to the tutorial system.
So two different teams in theory, just again to illustrate the separation could work on the one could
work on the core game logic and one could work on the tutorial logic as well as other systems.
But I'm just showing about the separation here and they're all speaking through the login model and
the commands.
So that's it.
Now let's take a look at the demo running again.
So again, bulk of the screen real estate is is loaded from another scene.
It knows nothing that it's been loaded in the tutorial.
The tutorial sits on top and has just a little bit of view in the corner there and shows well, it's
the tutorial.
Enter the username and password.
So I start typing in there and it updates.
It says okay, click log in.
Now I click login.
It said Waiting for result.
And then it says, Oh, you failed.
And I click log out.
Notice the tutorial changes again.
Now I can type some stuff in and then I'll type the correct answer here.
One, two, three, four.
Click, log in.
It says Waiting for a result.
And then it says, You completed the tutorial.
So it's as tightly integrated as if it was part of the core logic, but you gain the benefit of that
separation.
So in the earlier part of this video I mentioned one of the benefits of that tutorial.
Being separate is that maybe you only want it to run for the first one minute of gameplay.
I could simply disable the tutorial up there in the corner and the core game logic doesn't need to know
about the tutorial.
It doesn't need to know if it's enabled or not.
Or imagine that there's a settings menu and the settings has.
Check this box.
If you want the tutorial, check this box if you don't want the tutorial.
So that also could enable that little window in the corner here to be toggled on or toggled off.
Great.
So that's it for that demo.